.TH QJACKCTL 1 "June 17, 2014"
.SH NAME
qjackctl \- User interface for controlling JACK (Jack Audio Connection Kit)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qjackctl 
[\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B qjackctl
command.
.PP

.PP
\fBQjackCtl\fP is used for controlling the Jack Audio Connection
Kit (JACK) and as a patchbay for ALSA MIDI and JACK MIDI devices.
\fBQjackCtl\fP also has support for the JACK transport control protocol,
so you can use it to start and stop the JACK transport. Once you
start qjackctl, you get presented with a single GUI window, the
buttons are self-explanatory and have tooltips. 
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR
.IP
Start JACK audio server immediately
.HP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-preset\fR=[\fIlabel\fR]
.IP
Set default settings preset name
.HP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-active\-patchbay\fR=[\fIpath\fR]
.IP
Set active patchbay definition file
.HP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-server\-name\fR=[\fIlabel\fR]
.IP
Set default JACK audio server name
.HP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
.IP
Show help about command line options
.HP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
.IP
Show version information.
.SH D-BUS INTERFACE
Enable 'Setup > Misc > Other > Enable D-Bus interface' to use the D-Bus interface commands as shown below.
.PP
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.start\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.stop\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.reset\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.main\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.messages\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.status\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.session\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.connections\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.patchbay\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.graph\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.rewind\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.backward\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.play\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.pause\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.forward\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.setup\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.about\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.quit\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.preset string\fR:[\fIlabel\fR]
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.active-patchbay string\fR:[\fIpath\fR]
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.load\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.save\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.savequit\fR
.RE
.RS
\fBdbus\-send \-\-system / org.rncbc.qjackctl.savetemplate\fR
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jackd (1)
.SH FILES
Configuration settings are stored in ~/.config/rncbc.org/QjackCtl.conf
.SH AUTHOR
QjackCtl was written by Rui Nuno Capela.
.PP
This manual page was written by Guenter Geiger <geiger@debian.org>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
